Steps followed for creating the application--

1.Generated scaffold for requred fields of creating a new blog(title and body)

2.Installed paperclip gem for uploading pics while creating a new blog

3.Used timestamp data type for keeping track of blogs posted.

4.Scaffold automatically provides facility to create,edit and deleting the post.

5.Used css for styling all the pages generated by scaffold

6.Used twitter-bootstrap and bootstrap-sass gems to further enhance styling of pages(navigation bar,buttons,placeholder etc)

7.Used devise for authenticating users.

8.Installed rails layout gem to style pages generated by devise(signup,signin and edit account pages)

9.Configured devise to send mail to users in case they forgot their password.

10.Provided users to comment on blogs posted(related models for users and posts,each user can have many posts and posts belong to a user) with their time of posting the comment.

11.Used gravatar for profile pictures of users(they must have an account on gravatar)


GUIDE TO OPERATE THE APPLICATION-

1.Starting the application greets you with a login page where you have to enter your email and passwor for authentication.

2.Go to sign up page in case you are a new user or go to forgot password link in case you forgot the password entered in signup form.

3.After authentication,you are navigated to homepage where it is shown that you are logged in wih ur email id and a profile picture attached with it.

4.Homepage shows all the blogs posted by different users together with thumbnail of the image uploaded and time when the blog was posted,you can click on show button to see the image enlarged and the blog content with all the comments of users with their email ids and pictures.You can comment on blog if you want.

5.There is a new post button on the bottom of page from where you can create a new post.Clicking on that button navigates you to a form where you have to enter the title,image and content to create a new post.

6.You can edit or destroy your post later if you want via edit or destroy button respectively.

7.There is a navigation bar on the top of the every page from where you can either go to home page,edit account page or logout.

8.In the edit account page.You have an option to change your password or delete your account.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

